good evening tonight I want to have an
unpleasant talk with you
that's unprecedented in history with the
exception of preventing war this is the
greatest challenge that our country will
face during our lifetime the energy
crisis has not yet overwhelmed us but it
will if we do not act quickly it's a
problem that we will not be able to
solve in the next few years and it's
likely to get progressively worse
through the rest of this century we must
not be selfish or timid if we hope to
have a decent world for our children and
our grandchildren we simply must balance
our demand for energy with our rapidly
shrinking resources by acting now we can
control our future instead of letting
the future control us two days from now
I will present to the Congress my energy
proposals its members will be my
partners and they have already given me
a great deal of valuable advice many of
these proposals will be unpopular some
will cause you to put up with
inconveniences and to make sacrifices
the most important thing about these
proposals is that the alternative may be
a national catastrophe further delay can
affect our strength and our power as a
nation our decision about energy will
test the character of the American
people and the ability of the President
and the Congress to govern this nation
this difficult effort will be the moral
equivalent of war except that we will be
uniting our efforts to build and not to
destroy now I know that some of you may
doubt that we face real energy shortages
in 1973 gas lines are gone and with the
springtime weather our homes are warm
again but our energy problem is worse
tonight than it was in 1973 a few weeks
ago in the dead of winter it's worse
because more waste has occurred and more
time has passed by without our planning
for the future and it will get worse
every day until we act the oil and
natural gas we were alone for 75% of our
energy are simply running out in spite
of increased effort domestic production
has been dropping steadily at about six
percent a year
imports have doubled in the last five
years in our nation's economic and
political independence is becoming
increasingly vulnerable unless profound
changes are made to law or consumption
we now believe that early in the 1980s
the world will be demanding more oil
than it can produce the world now uses
about 60 million barrels of oil a day
and demand increases each year about
five percent this means that just to
stay even
we need the production of a new Texas
every year an Alaskan North Slope every
nine months or a new Saudi Arabia every
three years obviously this cannot
continue we must look back in the
history to understand our energy problem
twice in the last several hundred years
has been a transition in the way people
to use energy the first was about 200
years ago can we changed away from wood
which had provided about 90% of all fuel
to coal which was much more efficient
this change became the basis of the
Industrial Revolution the second change
took place in this century with the
growing use of oil and natural gas they
were more convenient and cheaper than
coal and the supply seemed to be almost
without limit
they made possible the age of automobile
and airplane travel there everyone who
is alive today grew up during this
period and we have never known anything
different because we are now running out
of gas and oil we must prepare quickly
for a third change to strict
conservation and to the renewed use of
coal and the permanent renewable energy
sources like solar palm